---
layout: post
title: Resilient Management by Lara Hogan Review
date: 2019-08-03
category: management
---

I've started officially managing a team at Booking.com since the
February of last year. Since that time, I've started reading a lot of
books to learn all the skills that I'm lacking. Recently, I started
thinking of reviewing books that I read and my management journey in
my blog, and here is the first post in that direction.

Today, I was reading Lara Hogan's [Resilient
Management](https://abookapart.com/products/resilient-management),
which was mentioned several times on the Internet recently. Here is my
review of it, and what personally stuck with me.

## The Good

First of all, I should say that the book is really friendly in terms
of tone -- I really liked to read it as if the author was talking to
me. I haven't talked to or listened to Lara, but from the book, she
comes off as an energetic person who likes to have fun, and that helps
a lot in absorbing the messages, and sometimes hard truths, that she
talks about.

The second thing I really liked about this book was how specific it
is. It talks about 1:1s, using issues, JIRA, and all the things we
deal with on a daily basis in tech. Usually, other books are much
broader, and you have to ground it in your own knowledge and
tools. However, as a person who is just beginning, I always had this
nagging feeling of, "am I understanding this right?" The fact that
Lara refers to all these tools and processes specifically leaves very
little room for misinterpretation.

Apart from the book itself, I found the "Resources" section a huge
hoard of gold, so much so that I've started working my way through
those as well. Lara has had a lot of experience in management, and her
style seems to be very close to mine, except she has figured out
things that I'm still struggling with, namely being a bit more
assertive and the lack of experience in general. So, it's great to
have a list of things that she has used to get to where she is. This
is something I can use to hopefully get more in-depth about what she's
talking about.

## The Bad

One thing that struck me was, this book is very small relative to what
it covers. It only took me three hours to read it. Granted, I use a
screen reader that reads very fast, but I'm sure eyes can also read
just as quickly.

Being small isn't necessarily a bad thing, except this book seems to
be trying to tackle too many subjects, and ends up skimming the
surface in almost all of them. I finished this book feeling confused
and nervous, mostly because it just showed me all the things I didn't
know, instead of making me feel like I could get a handle on
something--anything--after finishing it.

I assume that since this book is for beginning managers, Lara is
trying to give a broader overview of all the parts of the job, rather
than providing enough content to make a beginner totally
confident. Look below in the section about my recommendation to see how
I suggest remedying this.

Another thing was the figures. I emailed Lara herself about this, and
with her straight-forward approach and her focus on unrepresented
groups I'm sure she will get to this quickly, but as it stands, if you
are color blind, or like me, totally blind, there could be content
that you'd miss. Some of them are supplementary and you can probably
live without, but some of it, like the different
behavioral/communication styles, could be confusing.

## What I Learned

### Disagree And Commit

This is something I encountered for the first time in this
book. Normally, I have problems owning something that isn't totally
done by me, but I've experienced first-hand what it does to people's
sense of control and fairness when I shrug and say, "I tried."

So, I totally knew the importance of why not to do what I was doing,
but I also had no idea about the alternatives.

This is very important in cases like performance calibrations, where
your idea might be different than the actual result. This could also
happen, for example, when you have a different opinion than your boss,
and the decision ends up being directive and you have to tell your
team to do it anyway.

Just as I said above, however, I now know that what I should do has a
name, and it's called "disagree and commit". However, I need to look
online or in other books to get more depth on it, since Lara just
skimmed over the subject in a few paragraphs.

### 1:1 Questions

When I say this book is actionable, I mean it gets down to the level
of what questions you should ask the people in the team in your 1:1s!

The questions proposed by Lara are actually very useful because they
tell me what kind of things people expect from me, and it's alright to
go up to them and bombard them with questions in the initial stages to
kick things off.

Just to give you an idea of what these questions are, here are the
ones that I found very interesting -- things that would have never
occurred to me to ask:

- Whatâ€™s your favorite way to treat yourself?
- Human learning and growth requires the right amount of four things: new challenges, low ego,
 space to reflect and brainstorm, and timely and clear feedback. How are these four going for
 you? Is there one you need more or less of?
- And the easy but very surprising one: "what do you need from your teammates?"

As someone who has this voice inside his head that tells him people
will find what he's doing very weird, I get very
self-conscious. That's why having these questions will help me both be
a bit more confident, and also know what questions I should ask to
keep my finger on the pulse of how other team members are feeling.

### Tracking Your Energy

This is a concept that I first got to read about in Ron Friedman's
[The Best Place to Work](http://thebestplacetoworkbook.com/) last
year. It percolated in my brain for a while, until I found [The Power
of Full
Engagement](https://www.amazon.com/Power-Full-Engagement-Managing-Performance/dp/0743226755),
which argues that managing energy, not time, is the key to high
performance.

For me, personally, high performance is not the highest priority right
now. I'm more interested in sustainable performance, where your output
and performance is more predictable.

However, the way Lara looks at it is a bit different. In her calendar,
she colors her meetings based on what kind of "brain" they use. She talks about
a "manager brain" that is used in 1:1s, a
"dissemination-of-information brain" that she uses in group meetings
like the ones with her team, the "strategy/tactics brain" where she is
meeting with her peers to set strategy and timelines, and the "focus,
complex problem solving brain" which she uses to get her own tasks
done.

There is no explanation I could find on why she separates out the
activities like this, or how she got to this conclusion, but if it
works for you, feel free to use it. For me, personally, I need to try
it out in real life to see how it works.

But first, I should figure out what to substitute for colors in my calendar!

## My Final Recommendation

I personally feel like this book is more useful in the beginning
stages of your management journey, when you are like me and you
haven't actually seen a team go through its four stages of forming,
storming, norming and performing in action. If you are here, I
strongly suggest getting this book, knowing that it'd be more useful
to you if you are in tech.

Once you get it, I suggest going through it once to get a general idea
of what she is talking about, but then coming back multiple times as
you need the information. As I said above, there is a lot of knowledge
packed in this book, and there is a very high chance that you will
glaze over something that doesn't apply to you at the time. So, keep
it handy, and refer to it often!

## What About You?

Have you read Lara Hogan's book? What was your take on it? What did
you like or dislike about it? For that matter, what did you like or
dislike about my review?

Please leave a comment below and let me know!
